# Welcome to my Page
<br>
<br>

## Reflections on Open Source in Today's World

### 1-30-2020

Today, I will be discussing articles from opensource.com and responding to them. Afterwards, I'll follow up on my progress with the team project. Here are the article names and their links: <a href='https://opensource.com/article/19/9/found-linux-video-gaming'>How I ditched my old OS and jumped into Linux</a> | <a href='https://opensource.com/business/16/3/top-linux-shells'>Top 5 open source command shells for Linux</a>

Both articles are related to Linux, which seems appropriate to focus on as one of the most successful open source projects out there. Don Watkins' article, "How I ditched my old OS and jumped into Linux", actually focuses in on the experience of Jason Evangelho, who is a Forbes tech writer who discusses his experience switching from Windows to Linux. I found this article particularly interesting due to its partial focus on gaming on Linux, discussing the compatability software Proton and how its open source development has led to rapid optimization of gaming on Linux. I myself have frequently considered making the switch from Windows to Linux, and bar the convenience that Windows brings to me for running various school applications, I would have already made the switch on my laptop. I had run a dual boot setup on my desktop at home once before, but due to various small frustrations I decided to nuke it for the time being, but I plan on re-adding it again soon looking into the various distros available. I am particularly interested in the distros that were recommended in this article, so I will be checking those out soon. This article has definitely increased my interest in switching to Linux; perhaps after I graduate, I can ditch Windows entirely, maybe running it in VM for the various applications that won't work on Linux. It also inspires me to look into contributing to Linux open source development myself, given I develop the skills necessary and feel confident and inspired in the future.

The second article, "Top 5 open source command shells for Linux", had me interested because I hadn't heard of any of these open source command shells, and didn't even think about the benefits to choosing one over the other until reading this article. I had only heard of bash before out of the five discussed, and reading into the other two has me interested in trying them out sometime. Also, hearing that they are often packages with many distros helps me with the ease of access, allowing me to just jump right into it next time I decide to try Linux. I'll keep this article in mind.

As for progress on the Team Project, I've built Firefox on my local machine and I am in contact with a user on Bugzilla to get me started on a good first bug. I'll be looking around at other bugs to see if I can get my hands on anything else, but I'll be careful not to overextend so that I don't find myself responsible for more than I can handle within a decent amount of time. I'm also working on getting the Firefox development VM running on my Laptop so that I can do some work on the go without messing around too much with the full installation in my OS, instead focusing on keeping it all within a container in Virtual Box. It also gives me the opportunity to test my fixes on both Windows and Linux to further ensure consistency. I'm still looking for big projects to take on, but even if I don't find one, I'll be content spending the semester exploring the Mozilla ecosystem, getting assistance with bug fixes and perhaps dabbling into some code development and documentation when I want to try something new. If I ever get stuck, the IRC for Mozilla seems like a good place to go for assistance. I'm glad we picked a project with such active support, else we may have ended up stuck for days on issues we otherwise now can receive quick assistance on. Hopefully by the next journal I'll have made a meaningful contribution to the Mozilla community. 

## Reflections on FOSS

### 1-23-2020

I'm not sure if I'm only supposed to talk about The Cathedral and the Bazaar in this post, but I figured I'd blog about my team experience throughout the week as well. Progress with my team has been going very well. I'd worked with two of the members before in previous classes (and in the case of one, work environments) so we're getting along well and tossing ideas along nicely. I'd originally suggested that we go with Osu!, as it looked like a lot of fun and that there was plenty to do. Unfortunately, after trying to get in contact with them on their official Discord Server, nobody had replied after two attempts (following their rules), so I figured with that sort of response we wouldn't be able to get much done in the way of communication, and went with Mozilla instead. We're currently tossing around ideas for add-ons to make, and alternatively we can contribute to their addons-frontend repository.

Now, on the topic of The Cathedral and the Bazaar, I found it very interesting to read about the different types of approaches to open-source development. I'm not very familiar with open-source development (which is why what we'll be working on in this class will be a nice learning experience for me) but of what I know of open-source development, I always thought of it as more of the bazaar-style development process that is described here which is/was used to develop Linux. I always thought that was the only real way to go about open-source development, keeping everything out in the open and opening the development arms outwards towards anyone who wanted to take a crack at it. However, the cathedral-style of development also makes sense, and both seem to be successful in their own ways, but it's clear that the bazaar-style of development is taking the reins in popularity, and for good reason; it's highly effective and efficient. This exerpt is quite outdated by today's standards, being originally written in 1997 with revisions dating up to August 2000 (20 whole years ago), but given that I hadn't even thought of the existence of the cathedral-style development model beforehand gives me the impression that, from what I'm aware of open-source development, the bazaar-style has taken over even further, proving to be the more powerful approach. It makes me wonder if any other styles of open-source development have emerged along with newer technology. With Github getting its start in 2008, it surely seems to have changed a lot about how we handle open-source development, so perhaps it's ready for a new assessment (if one doesn't already exist).


## Introduction

### 1-12-2020

I will be blogging in this format on this page for the entire semester, adding new posts on top of this one in the same format. I believe this is the simplest way to do it while looking professional. I've utilized the Pages function of Github with the Midnight theme created by user 'mattgraham'. I followed these steps to set this site up, and they have been very useful: <a href='https://guides.github.com/features/pages/'>https://guides.github.com/features/pages/</a>

To introduce myself, I am Cory Goodwin. I will be graduating this semester, and I'm hoping to leave this class with an appreciable experience in programming. While I don't see myself pursuing software development as a full-time career, it will be good to dabble in it a bit. I wasn't supposed to take this course as a Computer Information Systems major, but due to issues outside of my control, all I can do is make the best of it. そして日本語を勉強中だから、日本の会社や日本にもいる会社に働けばいいだろうと思っています。 (Also, because I'm studying Japanese, I think I should work for a Japanese company, or a company that is also in Japan.) Those are the most important facts about me and I am both excited and stressed about the coming semester. I will be devoting a lot of energy to this course, and I hope that all of that energy provides opportunities to shine. One of my career goals is to be versatile so that I can work flexibly in my own time, so this class should prepare me for that if some software-engineering-focused needs were to arise in any position I find myself in.
